skills/asc-xcode-build/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: asc-xcode-build
description: Build, archive, and export iOS/macOS apps with xcodebuild before uploading to App Store Connect. Use when you need to create an IPA or PKG for upload.
---

# Xcode Build and Export

Use this skill when you need to build an app from source and prepare it for upload to App Store Connect.

## Preconditions
- Xcode installed and command line tools configured
- Valid signing identity and provisioning profiles (or automatic signing enabled)

## iOS Build Flow

### 1. Clean and Archive
```bash
xcodebuild clean archive \
  -scheme "YourScheme" \
  -configuration Release \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourApp.xcarchive \
  -destination "generic/platform=iOS"
```

### 2. Export IPA
```bash
xcodebuild -exportArchive \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourApp.xcarchive \
  -exportPath /tmp/YourAppExport \
  -exportOptionsPlist ExportOptions.plist \
  -allowProvisioningUpdates
```

A minimal `ExportOptions.plist` for App Store distribution:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
    <key>method</key>
    <string>app-store-connect</string>
    <key>teamID</key>
    <string>YOUR_TEAM_ID</string>
</dict>
</plist>
```

### 3. Upload with asc
```bash
asc builds upload --app "APP_ID" --ipa "/tmp/YourAppExport/YourApp.ipa"
```

## macOS Build Flow

### 1. Archive
```bash
xcodebuild archive \
  -scheme "YourMacScheme" \
  -configuration Release \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourMacApp.xcarchive \
  -destination "generic/platform=macOS"
```

### 2. Export PKG
```bash
xcodebuild -exportArchive \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourMacApp.xcarchive \
  -exportPath /tmp/YourMacAppExport \
  -exportOptionsPlist ExportOptions.plist \
  -allowProvisioningUpdates
```

### 3. Upload PKG
macOS apps export as `.pkg` files. Use `xcrun altool`:
```bash
xcrun altool --upload-app \
  -f "/tmp/YourMacAppExport/YourApp.pkg" \
  --type macos \
  --apiKey "$ASC_KEY_ID" \
  --apiIssuer "$ASC_ISSUER_ID"
```

Note: The API key file must be in `~/.appstoreconnect/private_keys/AuthKey_<KEY_ID>.p8`

## Build Number Management

Each upload requires a unique build number higher than previously uploaded builds.

In Xcode project settings:
- `CURRENT_PROJECT_VERSION` - build number (e.g., "316")
- `MARKETING_VERSION` - version string (e.g., "2.2.0")

Check existing builds:
```bash
asc builds list --app "APP_ID" --platform IOS --limit 5
```

## Troubleshooting

### "No profiles for bundle ID" during export
- Add `-allowProvisioningUpdates` flag
- Verify your Apple ID is logged into Xcode

### Build rejected for missing icon (macOS)
macOS requires ICNS format icons with all sizes:
- 16x16, 32x32, 128x128, 256x256, 512x512 (1x and 2x)

### CFBundleVersion too low
The build number must be higher than any previously uploaded build. Increment `CURRENT_PROJECT_VERSION` and rebuild.

## Notes
- Always clean before archive for release builds
- Use `xcodebuild -showBuildSettings` to verify configuration
- For submission issues (encryption, content rights), see `asc-submission-health` skill

Commit message:

docs(skills): align TestFlight + PKG upload commands
Fix outdated skill guidance for TestFlight beta groups/testers and macOS PKG uploads.

skills/asc-xcode-build/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: asc-xcode-build
description: Build, archive, and export iOS/macOS apps with xcodebuild before uploading to App Store Connect. Use when you need to create an IPA or PKG for upload.
---

# Xcode Build and Export

Use this skill when you need to build an app from source and prepare it for upload to App Store Connect.

## Preconditions
- Xcode installed and command line tools configured
- Valid signing identity and provisioning profiles (or automatic signing enabled)

## iOS Build Flow

### 1. Clean and Archive
```bash
xcodebuild clean archive \
  -scheme "YourScheme" \
  -configuration Release \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourApp.xcarchive \
  -destination "generic/platform=iOS"
```

### 2. Export IPA
```bash
xcodebuild -exportArchive \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourApp.xcarchive \
  -exportPath /tmp/YourAppExport \
  -exportOptionsPlist ExportOptions.plist \
  -allowProvisioningUpdates
```

A minimal `ExportOptions.plist` for App Store distribution:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
    <key>method</key>
    <string>app-store-connect</string>
    <key>teamID</key>
    <string>YOUR_TEAM_ID</string>
</dict>
</plist>
```

### 3. Upload with asc
```bash
asc builds upload --app "APP_ID" --ipa "/tmp/YourAppExport/YourApp.ipa"
```

## macOS Build Flow

### 1. Archive
```bash
xcodebuild archive \
  -scheme "YourMacScheme" \
  -configuration Release \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourMacApp.xcarchive \
  -destination "generic/platform=macOS"
```

### 2. Export PKG
```bash
xcodebuild -exportArchive \
  -archivePath /tmp/YourMacApp.xcarchive \
  -exportPath /tmp/YourMacAppExport \
  -exportOptionsPlist ExportOptions.plist \
  -allowProvisioningUpdates
```

### 3. Upload PKG with asc
macOS apps export as `.pkg` files. Upload with `asc`:
```bash
asc builds upload \
  --app "APP_ID" \
  --pkg "/tmp/YourMacAppExport/YourApp.pkg" \
  --version "1.0.0" \
  --build-number "123"
```

Notes:
- `--pkg` automatically sets platform to `MAC_OS`.
- For `.pkg` uploads, `--version` and `--build-number` are required (they are not auto-extracted like IPA uploads).
- Add `--wait` if you want to wait for build processing to complete.

## Build Number Management

Each upload requires a unique build number higher than previously uploaded builds.

In Xcode project settings:
- `CURRENT_PROJECT_VERSION` - build number (e.g., "316")
- `MARKETING_VERSION` - version string (e.g., "2.2.0")

Check existing builds:
```bash
asc builds list --app "APP_ID" --platform IOS --limit 5
```

## Troubleshooting

### "No profiles for bundle ID" during export
- Add `-allowProvisioningUpdates` flag
- Verify your Apple ID is logged into Xcode

### Build rejected for missing icon (macOS)
macOS requires ICNS format icons with all sizes:
- 16x16, 32x32, 128x128, 256x256, 512x512 (1x and 2x)

### CFBundleVersion too low
The build number must be higher than any previously uploaded build. Increment `CURRENT_PROJECT_VERSION` and rebuild.

## Notes
- Always clean before archive for release builds
- Use `xcodebuild -showBuildSettings` to verify configuration
- For submission issues (encryption, content rights), see `asc-submission-health` skill
